# POKEMON BATTLE SIMULATOR
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/0AbafNr638I
#### Description:
**Pokemon Battle Simulator** is a simulator of a pokemon battle. The player and the opponent have 6 randomly generated pokemon based on pokedex. Every turn, the player have 3 different moves which are FIGHT, BAG, and POKEMON. If the player presses FIGHT, the current pokemon can do 4 different moves, NORMAL ATTACK, SPECIAL ATTACK, DEFEND, and SPECIAL DEFEND. Normal attack damages the opponent based on the attack stat of the pokemon. Special attack damages based on the special attack stat of the pokemon. Defend raises the pokemon's defense and receives less damage from the opponent. Special defend blocks the enemy if the enemy uses special attack. If the player presses BAG, the player can use 3 different potions. Small potion increases the current health points by 50, medium potion increases the current health points by 100, and mega potions increases the current health points by 200. If the player presses POKEMON, the player can switch out to a new pokemon.

This project is made with *Python* and *Pygame*. I decided to use *Python* because this game uses objects, so Python as an object oriented programming language is suitable. I also used *Pygame* because it is beginner friendly to game development and the library is relatively simple.

The file *Button.py*  is a module containing Button class which I use as a button to get player input. The *Pokemon.py* is a module containing Pokemon class and Healthbar class. The pokemon class have all FIGHT moves and animation for each move. The Healthbar class creates a green healthbar depending on the pokemon's hp and max hp. The file *Trainer.py* is a module containing Trainer and Potion class. The Trainer class have different methods for each move to fight, use potion, or switch pokemon. The Trainer class also consisted of Pokemons and Potions. The file *main.py* is the driver for the game. The *requirements.txt* file is all the dependencies needed for this project.

All images of the pokemon and background images are stored in *back*, *bg*, and *front* file. The stats of every pokemon in the pokedex are stored in *pokemon_clean.csv* in the *assets* folder. The dataset of the pokemons is from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/abcsds/pokemon). I use pandas library to read through the dataset.

The program works by keeping track of the state of the program every frame during the game loop inside *main.py* and the display changes based on the current state. For example, when the player clicked the *attack* button, the state changes into *attack* and the display will change based on the changed state. When the attack is done, the state is changed into *idle* state.

This project could be improved by having more variations of animations. Since pokemon games are mostly from Nintendo DS, it is difficult to get the animations from the game. It could also be further improved by having different movesets for every pokemon.